www/docs/schemas/adapters.md, before:

---
id: adapters
title: Database Adapters
---

An "*Adapter*" in NextAuth.js is the thing that connects your application to whatever database or backend system you want to use to store data for user accounts, sessions, etc.

You do not need to specify an adapter explicltly unless you want to use advanced options such as custom models or schemas, or if you are creating a custom adapter to connect to a database that is not one of the supported datatabases.

:::tip
*The **adapter** option is currently considered advanced usage intended for use by NextAuth.js contributors.*
:::

## TypeORM (default adapter)

NextAuth.js comes with a default adapter that uses [TypeORM](https://typeorm.io/) so that it can be used with many different databases without any further configuration, you simply add the database driver you want to use to your project and tell  NextAuth.js to use it.

The default adapter comes with predefined models for **Users**, **Sessions**, **Account Linking** and **Verification Emails**. You can extend or replace the default models and schemas, or even provide your adapter to handle reading/writing from the database (or from multiple databases).

If you have an existing database / user management system or want to use a database that isn't supported out of the box you can create and pass your own adapter to handle actions like `createAccount`, `deleteAccount`, (etc) and do not have to use the built in models.

If you are using a database that is not supported out of the box, or if you want to use  NextAuth.js with an existing database, or have a more complex setup with accounts and sessions spread across different systems then you can pass your own methods to be called for user and session creation / deletion (etc).

The default adapter is the TypeORM adapter, the following configuration options are exactly equivalent.

```javascript
database: {
  type: 'sqlite',
  database: ':memory:',
  synchronize: true
}
```

```javascript
adapter: Adapters.Default({
  type: 'sqlite',
  database: ':memory:',
  synchronize: true
})
```

```javascript
adapter: Adapters.TypeORM.Adapter({
  type: 'sqlite',
  database: ':memory:',
  synchronize: true
})
```

## Prisma (opinionated adapter)

You can also use NextAuth.js with [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/docs/). This method requires you to follow a strict and opinionated setup like illustrated below.

To use this adapter, configure your `[...nextauth].js` like this:

```javascript
import NextAuth from 'next-auth'
import Providers from 'next-auth/providers'
import Adapters from 'next-auth/adapters'
import { PrismaClient } from '@prisma/client'

const prisma = new PrismaClient()

const options = {
  site: 'http://localhost:3000',
  providers: [
    Providers.Google({
      clientId: process.env.GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID,
      clientSecret: process.env.GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET
    })
  ],
  adapter: Adapters.Prisma.Adapter({ prisma }),
}

export default (req, res) => NextAuth(req, res, options)
```

Below you will find a suggested `schema.prisma` file. This is pretty much set in stone if you want to use Prisma.

Suggested `schema.prisma` file:

```
datasource sqlite {
  provider = "sqlite"
  url      = "file:./dev.db"
}

generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

model User {
  id            String    @default(uuid()) @id
  email         String    @unique
  emailVerified DateTime?
  image         String?
  name          String?
  sessions      Session[]
  accounts      Account[]
  createdAt     DateTime  @default(now())
  updatedAt     DateTime  @updatedAt
}

model Session {
  id                 String    @default(uuid()) @id
  userId             String
  user               User      @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id])
  accessToken        String    @default(cuid()) @unique
  sessionToken       String    @default(cuid()) @unique
  accessTokenExpires DateTime?
  expires            DateTime?
  createdAt          DateTime  @default(now())
  updatedAt          DateTime  @updatedAt
}

model Account {
  id                 String    @default(uuid()) @id
  compoundId         String    @unique
  userId             String
  user               User      @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id])
  providerId         String
  providerType       String
  providerAccountId  String    @unique
  refreshToken       String?
  accessToken        String?
  accessTokenExpires DateTime?
  createdAt          DateTime  @default(now())
  updatedAt          DateTime  @updatedAt
}

model VerificationRequest {
  id         String   @default(uuid()) @id
  identifier String
  token      String   @unique
  expires    DateTime
  createdAt  DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt  DateTime @updatedAt
}
```

The models themselves need to be defined like above, but the datasource can be changed to what you want.

## Custom adapters

Using a custom adapter you can connect to any database backend or even several different databases.

Creating a custom adapter is considerable undertaking and will require some trial and error and some reverse engineering as it is not currently well documented. The hope and expectation is to grow both the number of included (and third party) adapters over time.

An adapter in NextAuth.js is a function which returns an async  `getAdapter()` method, which in turn returns a Promise with a list of functions used to handle operations such as creating user, linking a user and an OAuth account or handling reading and writing sessions.

It uses this approach to allow database connection logic to live in the `getAdapter()` method. By calling the function just before an action needs to happen, it is possible to check database connection status and handle connecting / reconnecting to a database as required.

### Required methods

These methods are required for all sign in flows:

* createUser
* getUser
* getUserByEmail
* getUserByProviderAccountId
* linkAccount
* createSession
* getSession
* updateSession
* deleteSession

These methods are required to support email / passwordless sign in:

* createVerificationRequest
* getVerificationRequest
* deleteVerificationRequest

### Unimplemented methods

These methods will be required in a future release, but are not yet invoked:

* getUserByCredentials
* updateUser
* deleteUser
* unlinkAccount

### Example code

An example of adapter structure is shown below:

```js
const Adapter = (config, options = {}) => {

  async function getAdapter (appOptions) {

    async function createUser (profile) {
      return null
    }

    async function getUser (id) {
      return null
    }

    async function getUserByEmail (email) {
      return null
    }

    async function getUserByProviderAccountId (
      providerId,
      providerAccountId
    ) {
      return null
    }

    async function getUserByCredentials (credentials) {
      return null
    }

    async function updateUser (user) {
      return null
    }

    async function deleteUser (userId) {
      return null
    }

    async function linkAccount (
      userId,
      providerId,
      providerType,
      providerAccountId,
      refreshToken,
      accessToken,
      accessTokenExpires
    ) {
      return null
    }

    async function unlinkAccount (
      userId,
      providerId,
      providerAccountId
    ) {
      return null
    }

    async function createSession (user) {
      return null
    }

    async function getSession (sessionToken) {
      return null
    }

    async function updateSession (
      session,
      force
    ) {
      return null
    }

    async function deleteSession (sessionToken) {
      return null
    }

    async function createVerificationRequest (
      identifier,
      url,
      token,
      secret,
      provider
    ) {
      return null
    }

    async function getVerificationRequest (
      identifier,
      token,
      secret,
      provider
    ) {
      return null
    }

    async function deleteVerificationRequest (
      identifier,
      token,
      secret,
      provider
    ) {
      return null
    }

    return Promise.resolve({
      createUser,
      getUser,
      getUserByEmail,
      getUserByProviderAccountId,
      getUserByCredentials,
      updateUser,
      deleteUser,
      linkAccount,
      unlinkAccount,
      createSession,
      getSession,
      updateSession,
      deleteSession,
      createVerificationRequest,
      getVerificationRequest,
      deleteVerificationRequest
    })
  }

  return {
    getAdapter
  }
}

export default {
  Adapter
}
```

Commit message:

docs(prisma): Add note about model names and set email to optional

www/docs/schemas/adapters.md, after:

---
id: adapters
title: Database Adapters
---

An "*Adapter*" in NextAuth.js is the thing that connects your application to whatever database or backend system you want to use to store data for user accounts, sessions, etc.

You do not need to specify an adapter explicltly unless you want to use advanced options such as custom models or schemas, or if you are creating a custom adapter to connect to a database that is not one of the supported datatabases.

:::tip
*The **adapter** option is currently considered advanced usage intended for use by NextAuth.js contributors.*
:::

## TypeORM (default adapter)

NextAuth.js comes with a default adapter that uses [TypeORM](https://typeorm.io/) so that it can be used with many different databases without any further configuration, you simply add the database driver you want to use to your project and tell  NextAuth.js to use it.

The default adapter comes with predefined models for **Users**, **Sessions**, **Account Linking** and **Verification Emails**. You can extend or replace the default models and schemas, or even provide your adapter to handle reading/writing from the database (or from multiple databases).

If you have an existing database / user management system or want to use a database that isn't supported out of the box you can create and pass your own adapter to handle actions like `createAccount`, `deleteAccount`, (etc) and do not have to use the built in models.

If you are using a database that is not supported out of the box, or if you want to use  NextAuth.js with an existing database, or have a more complex setup with accounts and sessions spread across different systems then you can pass your own methods to be called for user and session creation / deletion (etc).

The default adapter is the TypeORM adapter, the following configuration options are exactly equivalent.

```javascript
database: {
  type: 'sqlite',
  database: ':memory:',
  synchronize: true
}
```

```javascript
adapter: Adapters.Default({
  type: 'sqlite',
  database: ':memory:',
  synchronize: true
})
```

```javascript
adapter: Adapters.TypeORM.Adapter({
  type: 'sqlite',
  database: ':memory:',
  synchronize: true
})
```

## Prisma (opinionated adapter)

You can also use NextAuth.js with [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/docs/). This method requires you to follow a strict and opinionated setup like illustrated below.

To use this adapter, configure your `[...nextauth].js` like this:

```javascript
import NextAuth from 'next-auth'
import Providers from 'next-auth/providers'
import Adapters from 'next-auth/adapters'
import { PrismaClient } from '@prisma/client'

const prisma = new PrismaClient()

const options = {
  site: 'http://localhost:3000',
  providers: [
    Providers.Google({
      clientId: process.env.GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID,
      clientSecret: process.env.GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET
    })
  ],
  adapter: Adapters.Prisma.Adapter({ prisma }),
}

export default (req, res) => NextAuth(req, res, options)
```

Below you will find a suggested `schema.prisma` file. This is pretty much set in stone if you want to use Prisma.

Suggested `schema.prisma` file:

```
datasource sqlite {
  provider = "sqlite"
  url      = "file:./dev.db"
}

generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

model User {
  id            String    @default(uuid()) @id
  email         String?   @unique
  emailVerified DateTime?
  image         String?
  name          String?
  sessions      Session[]
  accounts      Account[]
  createdAt     DateTime  @default(now())
  updatedAt     DateTime  @updatedAt @default(now())
}

model Session {
  id                 String    @default(uuid()) @id
  userId             String
  user               User      @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id])
  accessToken        String    @default(cuid()) @unique
  sessionToken       String    @default(cuid()) @unique
  accessTokenExpires DateTime?
  expires            DateTime?
  createdAt          DateTime  @default(now())
  updatedAt          DateTime  @updatedAt @default(now())
}

model Account {
  id                 String    @default(uuid()) @id
  compoundId         String    @unique
  userId             String
  user               User      @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id])
  providerId         String
  providerType       String
  providerAccountId  String    @unique
  refreshToken       String?
  accessToken        String?
  accessTokenExpires DateTime?
  createdAt          DateTime  @default(now())
  updatedAt          DateTime  @updatedAt @default(now())
}

model VerificationRequest {
  id         String   @default(uuid()) @id
  identifier String
  token      String   @unique
  expires    DateTime
  createdAt  DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt  DateTime @updatedAt @default(now())
}
```

The properties in the models need to be defined as above, but the model names themselves can be changed with a configuration option, and the datasource can be changed to what you want.

Example usage with custom model names:
```javascript
...
adapter: Adapters.Prisma.Adapter({ 
  prisma,
  modelMapping: {
    User: 'user',
    Account: 'providerAccount',
    Session: 'session',
    VerificationRequest: 'verification'
  }  
})
...
```

This example shows using e.g. `model ProviderAccount` instead of `model Account` and `model Verification` instead of `model VerificationRequest`.

## Custom adapters

Using a custom adapter you can connect to any database backend or even several different databases.

Creating a custom adapter is considerable undertaking and will require some trial and error and some reverse engineering as it is not currently well documented. The hope and expectation is to grow both the number of included (and third party) adapters over time.

An adapter in NextAuth.js is a function which returns an async  `getAdapter()` method, which in turn returns a Promise with a list of functions used to handle operations such as creating user, linking a user and an OAuth account or handling reading and writing sessions.

It uses this approach to allow database connection logic to live in the `getAdapter()` method. By calling the function just before an action needs to happen, it is possible to check database connection status and handle connecting / reconnecting to a database as required.

### Required methods

These methods are required for all sign in flows:

* createUser
* getUser
* getUserByEmail
* getUserByProviderAccountId
* linkAccount
* createSession
* getSession
* updateSession
* deleteSession

These methods are required to support email / passwordless sign in:

* createVerificationRequest
* getVerificationRequest
* deleteVerificationRequest

### Unimplemented methods

These methods will be required in a future release, but are not yet invoked:

* getUserByCredentials
* updateUser
* deleteUser
* unlinkAccount

### Example code

An example of adapter structure is shown below:

```js
const Adapter = (config, options = {}) => {

  async function getAdapter (appOptions) {

    async function createUser (profile) {
      return null
    }

    async function getUser (id) {
      return null
    }

    async function getUserByEmail (email) {
      return null
    }

    async function getUserByProviderAccountId (
      providerId,
      providerAccountId
    ) {
      return null
    }

    async function getUserByCredentials (credentials) {
      return null
    }

    async function updateUser (user) {
      return null
    }

    async function deleteUser (userId) {
      return null
    }

    async function linkAccount (
      userId,
      providerId,
      providerType,
      providerAccountId,
      refreshToken,
      accessToken,
      accessTokenExpires
    ) {
      return null
    }

    async function unlinkAccount (
      userId,
      providerId,
      providerAccountId
    ) {
      return null
    }

    async function createSession (user) {
      return null
    }

    async function getSession (sessionToken) {
      return null
    }

    async function updateSession (
      session,
      force
    ) {
      return null
    }

    async function deleteSession (sessionToken) {
      return null
    }

    async function createVerificationRequest (
      identifier,
      url,
      token,
      secret,
      provider
    ) {
      return null
    }

    async function getVerificationRequest (
      identifier,
      token,
      secret,
      provider
    ) {
      return null
    }

    async function deleteVerificationRequest (
      identifier,
      token,
      secret,
      provider
    ) {
      return null
    }

    return Promise.resolve({
      createUser,
      getUser,
      getUserByEmail,
      getUserByProviderAccountId,
      getUserByCredentials,
      updateUser,
      deleteUser,
      linkAccount,
      unlinkAccount,
      createSession,
      getSession,
      updateSession,
      deleteSession,
      createVerificationRequest,
      getVerificationRequest,
      deleteVerificationRequest
    })
  }

  return {
    getAdapter
  }
}

export default {
  Adapter
}
```
